hello everyone I'm pleased to announce
my new tour for 2024 beginning in early
February and running through June Tammy
and I an assortment of special guests
are going to visit 51 cities in the US
you can find out more information about
this on my website
jordanbpeterson.com as well as accessing
all relevant ticketing information I'm
going to use the tour to walk through
some of the ideas I've been working on
my forthcoming book out November 2024 we
who wrestle with God I'm looking forward
to this I'm thrilled to be able to do it
again and I'll be pleased to see all of
you again soon
bye-bye you know the biggest protesters
are not people staying inside the tent
cities they're often members of the
official opposition our province which
is the NDP which is a Socialist Party
within our Province but the vulnerable
people in general uh have been pretty
excited once they realized what
opportunities they have I mean do you
want my Approach which is to reach in
send a warm bus load everybody up bring
them to a nice warm facility give them
shower foods and access to Medical
resources or to be left inside a tent
freezing to death taking poison
[Music]
right hi everyone I had the opportunity
today to speak with Mr Jason Nixon he's
minister of seniors community and Social
Services in
Alberta why did I want to talk to him
well the albertans under Danielle Smith
have taken a very forthright stance re
recently for example against the trans
Butchery and deceit that increasingly
characterizes the Western world but more
they've also taken forthright action in
relationship to the springing up of all
these so-called tent cities that now
blight the landscape throughout North
America and elsewhere and uh they
haven't done that in a heavy-handed and
punitive way they've done that in a very
intelligent and thoughtful way they've
removed 200 of approximately 300 cities
already in Alberta and really began the
Enterprise only in December and I think
what's happening in Alberta I'm hoping
what's happening in Alberta could be a
model for what could happen in
jurisdictions like North America wide
and so that's why Ed to do this podcast
and with Mr Nixon he has very
interesting history his uh his father
had lived on the street as as an addict
and alcoholic and was rehabilitated uh
relatively young in his life and then
spent the rest of his life helping
homeless and addicted people and Jason
grew up in that environment he grew up
surrounded by homeless people even in
his own house and uh so this is a man
who's actually walked the walk and he
knows what he's doing by all appearances
that's what we're all praying and so we
walk through his personal experience and
also uh the details all of the details
or as many as we could manage with
regards to what's happening in Alberta
cleaning up the tent cities so to speak
and rehabilitating the people who for
one reason or another were unfortunate
enough or badly aimed enough to end up
there so it's a
hopeful dialogue and I'm hoping that
what what's happening in Alberta could
be a model for for the Western World so
join
us well thank you for sitting down with
me and with all my guests today um I'm
very interested as you know in what
what's going on in Alberta broadly but
the initial Focus for our conversation
is going to be what steps you are taking
within the confines of Premier Daniel
Smith's government to deal with the
so-called Tent City epidemic problem
social phenomenon
that's evident all over North America
and
and and and is new and surprising so
tell me what the situation is in Alberta
and also maybe how we got
there well I think I'll start with how
we got there you know particularly our
capital city in our province which is
Emon and we we started to see a real
significant situation when it came to
tent cities some people in our
communities will call them encampments
uh but where we were seeing hundreds of
encampments across the city of Emon uh
with hundreds of structures within those
those tent cities and really a desire
frankly by the city of Emon uh to
embrace those encampments in some way
and when I say the city I'm referring to
the municipality to to some members of
the government uh who ultimately have
you know bylaw control and have the
responsibility to keep the the city
clean we certainly have some overlap
responsibility about caring for the poor
and dealing with some of the health
issues that are involved of course but
in general usually the city is who deals
with it and uh over time we just saw
these encampments get bigger and bigger
and more and more problems come uh as a
result of that and so the chief of
police from Emon uh came and saw our
government uh and the and our Premier
for your International viewer and
American viewers as like a governor and
came in and laid out for us what they
were seeing in those encampments and I
have to tell you it was pretty alarming
it was shocking
uh you know we were hearing stories
about underage girls for example being
sexually exploited inside those
encampments they showed significant
evidence of the gangs operating inside
these encampments and charging people to
even use the tents uh and to be able to
access resources like water fountains or
other things that would be in the area
the police were fing were pulling out of
those encampments weapons that were uh
quite alarming obviously they were
seeing lots of stolen goods uh finding
dead bodies and most horrifying because
of course our our country is very cold
they were seeing people that lost their
lives as a result of burning to death in
these tents because they were trying to
heat them with propane and different
type of mechanisms to try to stay warm
and survive in the elements here and so
in some of those pictures we could not
even release to the media it was just
that shocking what was taking place and
so we we got clear instructions from our
Premier uh to get to work uh and to come
up with a new plan when it came to those
encampments which we got to work on
right away and this happened just before
Christmas this year so just a few weeks
ago uh and as a result of that we
launched immediately a task force led by
my ministri real department on Social
Services side but with support of a
variety of departments uh we put
together what we've called the
navigation Center so that's a structure
within the city of amiton where we were
able to bring all of the services
together everything from Health to
housing supports income supports
prescriptions even things as simple as
giving people ID so that they could be
able to move forward with their lives
and then we supported the police and we
went in and we started tearing down all
those encampments uh and we started to
have some pretty amazing results I look
forward to talking with you about but we
made a pretty clear statement that that
our province is no longer going to
tolerate this uh one because it's not
safe for the people in the encampments
but also it's just not right for a place
like Emon and ammonian deserve to have a
clean City where we can live where they
can live happily and enjoy their lives
okay so let's take this apart so you
said first of all how long ago did this
problem start to mount do you think
because there wer there weren't 10
cities in Edmonton when I lived in there
lived there back in the 1980s that's for
sure and I visited many times I mean
there are 10 cities now in Toronto too
and that's a completely new thing so
when did you really when did you guys
really start to become aware of this as
a mounting problem you know we started
to see 10 cities pop up in Emon probably
over the last two or three years but in
particularly over the last year year and
a half where it would really become
basically every Corner that you turned
particularly within the downtown core of
the city of Emon the other thing that
was new though was we're also seeing
those tent cities well outside of the
downtown areas and so they were starting
to pop up all across the city but that
was probably the timeline around emont I
think we you know we really saw that a
lot in our country in places like
Hastings and Vancouver which are have a
real bad Tent City culture and drug
culture inside that City but it was kind
of more new to our area over the last
couple years okay so it's about two or
three years now you said that there were
Edmonton alone how many people live in
Edmonton now just so everyone has a
sense of its size we we're getting up
towards a million I believe Edmonton
somewhere north of 800,000 I don't have
the number around but we're that'd be
the right area yep okay and you said
there were there were literally hundreds
of encampments and that some of them had
hundreds of tents is that is that right
that is 100% correct hundreds of
encampments and inside some of those
encampments you know I think the biggest
encampment I'm aware of was 400 plus
structures oh yeah okay okay so that's
starting to approach Village size
essentially well you know as a member of
the legislative assembly here in Alberta
I represent Villages that are smaller
than some of these
encampments okay okay so now why in the
world do you think this
happened so rapidly in the last two or
three years what's changed is it housing
costs I mean housing costs have gotone
out of control in Canada everyone knows
that and interest rates have gone up a
lot and so but that that alone seems to
me to be unlikely as a causal
explanation so you know how why is this
happening who are these people in the
main and where did they come
from yeah you know housing is a real
issue in our country particularly given
some of the bizarre Federal policies
that we've seen from our federal
government in Canada and and the
inflationary problems that we see in
North America but I want to be clear the
challenge when it comes to 10 cities is
not a housing challenge uh housing is
one of the consequences of of somebody
who ends up in these situations they
don't have housing but it's not a root
cause of why somebody ends up inside a
tense City the reality is that lots of
this has to do with drugs lots of this
has to do with mental health in other
circumstances and I I think there are
some people who want to frame this
discussion like Mom and Dad who lost
their job in the oil industry and
somehow are struggling to pay their
mortgage that's a very real issue inside
our country and our province that we
need to address and we are working on as
a society but that's not what this is uh
these individuals that are find
themselves in these encampments lots of
it's drug related
uh and we are seeing that without a
doubt when we go into these encampments
and you know I really it drives me nuts
personally as a minister responsible for
this in our province that certain
elements on the left continue to want to
discuss this issue in the context of
housing it's not the root causes of
homelessness and why people are intense
cities are something very very different
and he ask why what has changed that we
would see that more there has been much
more a culture uh certainly in our
country of accepting uh abusive Behavior
to oneself including using drugs and a
concept uh that we need to embrace that
and accept that putting poison into
people's bodies is how we help them deal
with things like addiction and that's
something our province has rejected
underneath the leadership of multiple
Prem but particularly Premier Smith
where our province has been really
dedicated on focusing on addiction
recovery and helping individuals in the
circumstance but there's certainly
elements of our province that just want
to let it continue and so some of that
is what's undertone of all of this issue
when it comes to encampments and T
cities inside our Pro
okay so let me let me push on that
because I want to make sure that I
understand this completely all right so
you make the somewhat surprising claim I
would say that in your opinion um a
small percentage of the variance in this
problem is accounted for by economics
specifically related to housing now
that's in it's interesting to me to have
you say that because if you were
inclined to make political points you
could do do that just as effectively on
the housing and infl infation side as
you could on the drug use tolerance side
let's say right so so there's no I can't
see any a Priory reason why you would
come down as a political agent on one
side of that argument or another but
what is it that's made you so convinced
that it is in fact a drug problem to
what degree is it an alcohol problem as
well and what drugs what drugs are
primarily the cause at the moment and
and is that like is that part parts of
the new wave of drugs that has entered
the North American economy so like are
you certain that it's drugs and alcohol
how much alcohol how much drugs which
drugs so again I want to be very clear I
don't dispute that we have housing
challenges and you're right I can make
political statements on that alone that
uh that I think could be very clear but
that's a different issue and why I'm so
certain about that is because of what
we're seeing from the individuals that
we've now been able to successfully get
out of these encampments in to our
social services process with supports
around them and the vast majority uh I
would say all have some sort of mental
health issue and the vast majority are
also facing addiction issues as a result
and we're so we're seeing things like
fentanyl which is a major uh drug that
is impacting all of our societies across
North America and the world we're seeing
much more of that in our communities now
methamphetamin is a major drug that has
been evolving on the streets it has real
serious fatal consequences to
individuals involved uh but that is what
is taking place inside these 10 cities
often it's a place where individuals
seem to be going to be doing drugs one
other thing that we found out I actually
should point out is that the vast
majority of individuals that we're
interacting with in these encampments
afterwards are also using our emergency
shelter system and other services in our
Province to be able to stay warm to get
food to get other resources to be able
to survive on the streets but they're
using those tent cities as a place to be
able to score drugs there a place to be
able to use drugs and and that is the
culture that is taking place in most of
these 10 cities I'm not saying every
person but certainly the vast majority
of who we interact with in these 10
cities has got some sort of drug and or
alcohol addiction oh okay so let's take
that apart a little bit I mean so back
in the early 70s that's really when it
started there was an anti- a leftist
anti- Psychiatry and anti-
institutionalization movement um it was
driven in part by the kinds of concerns
that were brought to light by movies
such as One Flew Over The cucko Nest
which really was quite a genius movie
and a great novel and written by a
psychiatric orderly who had seen plenty
of abusive situations within
institutions to be clear um they were
hardly places you would go for a picnic
but the leftist solution to that was to
demonize the psychiatric profession and
to
deinstitutionalize and the solution was
to produce um Community Alterna
Alternatives that would help integrate
these oppressed people who had been
falsely diagnosed with mental illness by
evil psychiatrists back into the
community well suffice it to say those
additional resources were never made
available not in any phen in any
fundamental way and many of those
so-called many of the so-called mental
illnesses those people had were actual
illnesses and not figments of
totalitarian psychiatric psychiatrist's
imagination and so
deinstitutionalization what de
institutionalization really meant was
that many mentally ill people ended up
in prison that was the fundament yeah or
on the streets and so and so this is a
this this homeless epidemic is a late
stage consequence of the fact that we
don't have Pro we abandon our attempts
to provide proper institutional care so
we'll get back to that now you you said
that the vast majority of these the
people who are in these tent cities have
a drug and or multiple drug and alcohol
problem and that they are utilizing all
sorts of other resources but that
they're using the tent cities in
particular as a place to gather and get
easy access to their elicit drugs now
obviously if you're not naive out of
your out of your skull that's an amazing
opportunity for gangs for drug pedaling
gangs especially the ones that are
pedaling the the hard and addictive
drugs and so you know the problem with
this
hyperco compassionate approach these
poor people they need a place to live
they might as well move into the parks
who are we to stop them from having a
place to live um they're all
economically challenged is that it
belies the reality of the drug addiction
problem that you described and the
criminality that goes along with it but
there's something even worse there's
something even more nefarious about it
it completely eliminates the possibility
that even if you brought a group of
people who were suffering together in
this unstructured manner all you would
do is invite the psychopathic gangs to
come in and take control now you said
that's what's happened that not only are
they are these tent cities so-called
places of massive drugs distribution
there are sources of ongoing revenue for
not only for gangs but for organized
gangs and so for like hardcore multiple
offense Dead Set against the public
order criminals to pray on people who
are vulnerable the the addicted
population let's say and and to pray in
them in mult in a multitude of ways you
know you you skipped over some very
interesting details like they're being
charged to stay in the tents well by who
it's not like anybody owns those tents
or the land okay they're they're being
charged to get access to water there and
then there's what prostitution gangs and
if not prostitution gangs what open race
like exactly what did you guys see when
you started delving into the this this
subculture produced by the toxically
compassionate so you're 100% right and
when I say gangs I'm talking about very
organized gangs definitely organized
crime uh the the police brought the
government very clear evidence which
they have presented to the media
including photographic evidence of what
is taking place inside these 10 cities
that show that The Gangs have control
within them and are uh certainly uh
abusing vulnerable people as a result of
that it's obviously a place where
they're selling drugs it's obviously a
place uh where people are getting access
to things that they should not but we
also have received clear evidence that
people are being charged even to get to
water fountains is a common thing that
the police have brought to us um we have
and and this for me personally was one
of the things that I was just shocked
that the media in my provin to not cover
as much as they should some of the early
uh tent cities that they went into the
police came out with evidence of minor
children being sexually exploited Within
These 10 cities uh that alone for me was
enough that we needed to tear them all
down full stop completely unacceptable
so you know and and then the other thing
that I should point out that the chief
of the EM Police Service really has has
done a good job of articulating for the
media is how much stolen property in of
itself is being stored Within These tent
cities I mean they went to this this one
area where there was a mound of bicycles
that were clearly stolen that were
bigger than than me and Jordan I'm a
real big guy I'm about 6'8 he's a big
pile of stolen property and so there's
been clear evidence time and time again
that documents what is taking place with
the gangs inside these areas and and
you're right they are exploiting the
most vulnerable amongst us uh and so
it's not safe and I think the key point
to this is it's not safe for the people
in the 10 cities and it's not safe for
emoni and I think this is the same
circumstance you would see in any other
major city in North America where these
tent cities are taking place
Financial experts thought we were in the
clear while these experts anticipated
rate Cuts inflation in the United States
is still a significant economic concern
think about it the US is in the hole by
$34 trillion and yet we keep printing
money which pushes the prices you pay
every day even higher so you can bury
your head in the sand or you can do
something about it diversify a portion
of your savings into gold with Birch
gold group gold is your hedge against
inflation and Birch gold makes it easy
to own they'll help you convert your
existing Ira or 401K into a tax
sheltered Ira in gold and you won't pay
a penny out of pocket make gold part of
your savings strategy and buy it from
Birch gold they've been the exclusive
gold partner of the daily wire for over
7 years now literally helping thousands
of our listeners and they can help you
too text Jordan to 9898 98 and get your
free info kit on gold then talk to a
precious metal specialist about
protecting your savings from persistent
inflation with gold text Jordan to 98
[Music]
now yeah well it's also it's not safe
for a variety of reasons I mean here's
here's a compelling reason so imagine
you set up um a set of essentially
Lawless domains and in consequence you
produce a specialized breed of
Psychopathic criminal who is then highly
organized it's like if you think that
that highly organized criminal gang is
is going to limit its criminal activity
to the tth city once it's established
you're an absolute bloody fool and so we
know for example as criminologists that
and I did a lot of work as a researcher
in the area of antisocial personality
and criminology 1% of the criminals are
responsible for 65% of the crimes you
let those long-term life course
psychopath Psychopathic repeat offenders
get away with what they're doing you're
going to reap the Whirlwind right it's a
very very bad idea and so now why do you
think okay so so let's ask two questions
who are these gangs and where do they
come from right and who's running in the
drugs how much of that's coming from
China who's controlling the distribution
do you guys have a sense of that and uh
well let's start with that you know in
Alberta the way I've been briefed with
our law enforcement uh support is that
we're seeing a variety of gangs
particularly indigenous gangs when
you're in the Emon area that are
operating on the street but we also have
clear evidence of actually cartels
including Mexican cartels and uh some of
this coming from the Asian market to
your point all operating here within the
province of Alberta so there are these
are pretty seriously organized gangs a
lot of that is to bring in the drugs
obviously to our street and then they're
using our street gangs which are often
indigenous on the streets to be able to
uh to move that product through places
like tent cities okay so you made
reference to the Mexican cartels let's
start with the Mexican cartels in the
Asian Supply so is there do you have any
more details on on on either of those
fronts it's a lovely thing to imagine
now that the Mexican cartels are
operating not only in the southern us
but in Alberta itself that's that's a
real accomplishment on our part I must
say and so Mexican cartel is an Asian
Supply I presume the Asian Supply is
mostly associated with
fentel yes that is correct uh and you
know the best person in our government
to talk to about this is obviously our
Public Safety Minister who's managing
this closy and be the one giving us this
information but we certainly have have
clear evidence of cartels being in drugs
particularly across our Southern border
uh and and frankly we're now starting to
see inside our Province where we're
becoming an exporter of things like
fentanyl so some of the products are
being brought up here to be be made on
our side of the line and then now
brought back even uh down south which is
quite a new thing for the province of
Alberta uh but certainly you know it
explains some of the circumstances that
we're we're seeing in our Province and I
would say Jordan that emitent for us
which our capital city is probably one
of our smaller drug problems you know
one of the the bigger areas we're seeing
some of our largest drug problems on the
street is actually in Lethbridge which
interestingly enough is the closest city
to the American Border uh a large city
in our Province to the American Border
and really I think as a proof point that
some of that drugs is starting there
because of what's taking place on the
border and which is why we're seeing
some of the most potent and deadly drugs
inside the Left Bridge area as it works
its way into the street culture right so
maybe I should also at some point talk
to the public safety minister so okay
and then you mentioned indigenous gangs
okay so now when I again when I lived in
Elbert in the 1980s now that's getting
to be quite a long time ago 40 years ago
there weren't organized indigenous
street gangs or if there were there were
very few of them I mean Edmonton was a
stunningly safe place with the exception
of a few blocks downtown which by say
American Standards were still relative
American downtown dangerous standards is
was still pretty civilized there was
just not a problem so so so what's
shifted in Alberta and and what is the
makeup and origin of these indigenous
gangs well I think what's shifted is the
money in the drug markets uh for sure
would would provide more ability for
gangs to become more and more organized
and you know the police have been out in
in our Province very clearly
establishing who these gangs are and
they're the ones who are giving me as a
cabinet minister that information of
what is taking place there I mean
obviously me my job is to provide that
social services support to individuals
Within These 10 cities but we're working
closely with the police who are the ones
coming and briefing us about the dangers
of gangs and there is no doubt in the
city of amiton but also across our
province that we continue to see that
organized gang element increasing my
personal view is and I think the police
would agree with me that a lot of that
is being driven obviously by drugs and
you know I uh as I think you know I used
to work in in a homeless shelter I grew
up in a homeless shelter my father is
the founder of one of the largest
homeless shelters and organizations that
work with the poor in western Canada
here in Calgary called The Mustard Seed
and we did not see anything like this
type of drug activity even 15 years ago
I you know we would never have imagined
a spot where we would see individuals
working within shelter seeing multiple
overdoses a day and sometimes multiple
fatalities in a week inside their
facilities and that just shows you
what's changed as far as the drug Market
which I which is logical what is driving
this organized crime element because of
the money that would be involved in that
okay so let's delve a little bit into
the contribution of federal policy into
producing this situation so I know that
the situation that you're describing in
Alberta is even more out of hand let's
say in British Columbia especially in
Vancouver and Vancouver is a much bigger
city with a much darker Center I mean
Vancouver had some downtown places that
were like seriously bad 40 years ago and
so and that's certainly spreading on the
western coast now my understanding is
that Canada at the federal level in some
ways took a page from some of the
European countries that were
experimenting with decriminalizing drug
use now I have some sympathy for that
Viewpoint because it isn't obvious to me
that the so-called War on Drugs was a
success and I think that it's attempt to
crack down too brutally on users of
at least in the past somewhat more
benign substances like cannabis and I
mean benign in comparison to alcohol say
which is legal I think a fair bit of
that was misguided but I do know that
countries like Portugal for example that
spearheaded this they didn't just reduce
the penalties for drug use and and
distribution let's say sales and
distribution they did that in concert
with what seemed to be the kind of
things that you guys are trying to pull
off in Alberta right it wasn't like the
Portuguese allowed people to be stoned
out of their mind derelicts on the
streets just because they stopped
criminalizing use of even the harder
drugs and my understanding is that in
Canada we did the first part which was
the easy part the decriminalization that
allowed the moralists to handwave about
how compassionate and wonderful they
were but we didn't do the second part
which was the conscientious part that
involved the the identification
treatment cleanup and even sometimes
criminal prosecution of people who had
gone a little too far down the drug
taking heed nistic Road let's say so how
do you see the problem that's that's
developed in Alberta as a manifestation
of a broader change in legislation at
the federal level with regards to drug
policy yeah and let me just first start
by saying uh we're very proud our
province has not become what's happening
in BC yet and we're not going to let
that happen that's why we're taking this
action to make sure that we don't end up
in circumstances like that here in
Alberta and you're exactly right there
is there's been an effort and a drive uh
particularly by politicians on the left
in our country uh to approach this issue
of addiction in a way that essentially
just accepts it as a disease and
continues to give the poison that is
causing the consequences to these
individuals to them uh and not work on
and giving tools to be able to help an
IND idual recover in those circumstances
we we don't want to I want to be very
clear on this we don't want to go arrest
and put somebody in jail because they
have a drug addiction that's not
happening in my Province uh the opposite
is happening we are reaching out to
those individuals we're getting them
into circumstan where they can be safe
and we're providing them with the
resources that they need to be able to
recover what the other side of this
argument believes is that you need to
just put them in a place like a tent or
an apartment paid for by the taxpayer
and continue to allow them to have
poison put into their body and the
somehow they will either magically get
better well the reality is they won't I
call that Pala of care for drug addicts
and that is where where really the big
difference is in our philosophy it's a
de sentence particularly when you're
dealing with things like Fentanyl and
these type of drugs now I mean it's just
going to get you at some point I mean
alcoholism which could be a real tough
circumstance and we we're dealing with
that too on the streets but that is many
decades to get to what we're seeing some
of these new drugs do to people in weeks
on our streets the reality is that
there's no safe Supply when it comes to
fentanyl you cannot take fentanyl safely
eventually you're going to odow this is
why inside medical facilities even where
people are taking fentanyl often paid
for by the government or other types of
chemicals like that um they will uh
they'll you'll see have to have nurses
there to be able to interact with
overdoses uh our our government really
believes we need to go the other way
which is that we need to reach out to
individual individuals in the
circumstance we need to invest in
resources that they will need to deal
with deal with root causes that have
caused their circumstance an es and give
them a way to be able to recover uh and
that's that's where it comes but you
know I think the 10 cities prove that
we're right because the reality is if
you if anybody thinks putting an
individual in tense in minus 50 degrees
C in Canada is a is a safe way to live
with propane tanks exploding and people
burning to death and all the things that
I have just described today is that is
more safer than what Alberta saying
which is come on into the shelters let's
get resources around you and let's help
you get better and you know what's
interesting Jordan is the individuals
that are coming out of the encampments
most of them actually want what we're
bringing forward and that's why in the
last 3 weeks as we've done encampments
over 200 of those individuals coming out
have gone to what we call our navigation
centers so they can navigate support uh
they've received over 500 referrals to
different Services many of them now are
in permanent housing type of
circumstances actively working on the
recovery dealing with the medical
circumstances that may be around them
and ultimately many of them will go on
to have productive life that's what we
want that's Humane with the other side
is selling is just accepting that
somebody's going to die and giving them
a death sentence I like that you use
that those words because I think it's
true that's the result of what what
they're doing no doubt about it yeah
there's always made if that fails you
know so exactly okay okay so let's now I
was interested in you in talking to you
in part so that we could walk through a
description of the tent cities and then
even more importantly shed some light on
the fact that such cities are almost
immediately taken over by the most
Psychopathic gangs you can possibly
imagine that's an important thing to
establish because it eradicates the
notion that this is some kind of
compassionate approach to these poor
unhoused people who are just trying to
live you know in a happy community no
wrong okay but mostly why I wanted to
talk to you was on the remediation and
treatment side so the first thing I want
to ask you is about your sociological or
your sociological goal now you implied
at the beginning of this this
conversation that there aren't going to
be any more tense cities in Alberta now
is that the goal like to to to re to
return to 30 years ago say where there
weren't 10 cities that just didn't
happen you know there's the odd person
under a bridge there's the odd homeless
person was very very rare there
certainly weren't communities of
homeless people so is your government's
goal to to attain that end and if
so how far long are you and what's your
timeline so yes our goal is to make sure
that we are not seeing dangerous tent
cities inside our cities you know I I
can't outright say that we would ever be
able to fully eliminate you know 10
cities could pop up at any time but that
we would stop in the future this being
the management tool to help with this
population and instead that we would
invest in proper resources and most
importantly what our government's doing
that I think is courageous is that we're
actually stepping in as a subnational
government to support a Municipal Police
Force to take down those encampments uh
and we're going to do that uh for for
two different reasons one is to help the
individuals in which I'll get to in a
minute the individuals that are in those
encampments but second to help our
citizens uh who live in places like Emon
ammonian don't deserve to have this in
their community no more they deserve to
be able to walk down the streets and
feel safe you know the last three weeks
as we tore down encampments Jordan my
our team with the with the city of
amiton collected 129 tons of garbage out
of these uh 10 cities alone including
three th000 needles so it just shows you
what is taking place inside those 10
cities and how dangerous it is to the
rest of the community but we want to go
one step further we want to then make
sure these individuals receive full
wraparound supports and the best
opportunities that they can uh to
overcome the situation that they find
themselves in we're not delusional we do
realize there still going to be homeless
people but we don't believe there should
be this many okay so we'll go to the
treatment of individuals in a moment so
I I want to flesh out the sociological
element a bit more first so first of all
I'd like to ask you you know one of the
things that's happening in Toronto is
that the tent cities increasingly occupy
public spaces and I think that's utterly
inexcusable because I don't believe that
the municipality for example has a right
to either take away Parks from people
including children who use those Parks
more than any other than any other
people and need them especially in the
cities they certainly don't have the
right to take those away they don't have
the right to take them away and award
them to other people who don't own them
and haven't purchased them in and and
have no contractual right to them
whatsoever and they also don't have the
right to fail to protect those parks and
so tell me where you saw the tent cities
emerging and what that meant just in
terms of occupation of land for the
people say in the surrounding
neighborhoods so I've seen tent cities
emerge in many different type of
locations within the city but you're
right most often it ends up inside the
green spaces in the city and I know you
know Emon so the beautiful River Valley
of the nor eskaton river that flows
right through that City you would see 10
cities all through that area and well
that's areas where people go and Jog and
they ride their bikes on the weekend
they take their dogs for a walk and it's
part of you know wanting to live in the
city and being able to get outside
within that area that you call home you
see the same thing in Calgary along
their beautiful Bo river that flows
through that City that's often where you
would see tent cities pop up I've also
heard horror stories particularly in the
city of leage which I mentioned has a
really tough drug problem right now of
families trying to take their children
out inside playgrounds in local
community parks and them ended up being
sometimes punctured by needles or other
things that are happening because the T
cities that have occupied that little
Park that you know it may not be as big
of a 10 city as we sometimes see in
amonton it may only be four or five
instead of hundreds but it's inside that
area where children are playing so
you're right it takes away from uh you
know people being able to enjoy the city
and that green space that they have and
you know B national park inside our
Province uh for some of your American
viewers very similar to Yellowstone a
pretty beautiful place I like it I can't
just take my tent and set it up anywhere
I want and start living and uh causing
trouble for everybody else who wants to
be able to come and enjoy the park it's
a silly argument for anybody in
Municipal politics to say that this is
the right thing to do for their
constituents is to allow something like
this beautiful green spaces to be
wrecked for the people that they
represent starting a business can be
tough especially knowing how to run your
online storefront thanks to Shopify it's
easier than ever Shopify is the global
Commerce platform that helps you sell at
every stage of your business from the
launch your online shop stage all the
way to the did we just hit a million
orders stage Shopify is there to help
you grow our marketing team uses Shopify
every day to sell our merchandise and we
love how easy it is to add more items
ship products and track conversions
Shopify helps you turn browsers into
buyers with the 's best converting
checkout up to 36% better compared to
other leading Commerce platforms no
matter how big you want to grow Shopify
gives you everything you need to take
control and take your business to the
next level sign up for a $1 per month
trial period at shopify.com
jbp go to shopify.com jbp now to grow
your business no matter what stage
you're at that's shopify.com
jbp okay so now you touched on a couple
of other things there too that are
interesting so I know that surprisingly
enough El like Alberta is a relatively
conservative Province until relatively
recently it was mostly a rural Province
it has the reputation and and I would
say it's deserved to some degree of
being something approximating the Texas
of Canada and yet what I see happening
from the outside and please correct me
if I'm getting this wrong is that
increasingly there is a standoff in in
Alberta of sorts between radical leftist
Municipal governments and the more
conservative provincial government is
and that I think that
that's particularly manifest in Calgary
secondarily manifest in Edmonton and
then I don't know enough about
Lethbridge comment so tell me to what
degree this situation has been set up
not only as a consequence of idiotic
federal policy that are virtue signaling
and and spineless and also not in the
least compassionate nor productive none
of that not not accomplishing the ends
that the policies themselves were
designed in principle to accomplish
there's a federal component to this but
then there's also a municipal component
and one of the things I've observed
happening in Canada and in the United
States but really in Canada is that the
radical leftist faux compassionate
narcissistic types have seized control
of the smaller elements of the
governmental institutions including
municipal government so I know that you
have to step somewhat carefully G given
your position in Alberta in relationship
to such a discussion but you know we did
allow for some criticism of the federal
government and its relationship with the
province well there's no reason not to
do the same thing on the other side
what's the situation with the
municipalities and then well there's a
segue in there because you also
mentioned that there's a strange
cooperation between the provincial
government and the Municipal Police on
this front which is quite strange right
because it means that the province is
going around the municipal governments
directly to the police that's a strange
so can you flash that out for me so I
can understand it more thoroughly yeah
well let let me start with the police so
you know in our structure uh something
like the Emon police would answer to a
police commission so while they are a
municipal funded organization also
funded by The Province to to a certain
amount uh the chief of police answers to
police commission not to city council
and that so that puts the chief in in
interesting spot uh and when we have
somebody like the chief of police of
Emon come to us and say I'm dealing with
a crisis I think I need you guys'
support this is an emergency situation
the cool part about my province is our
government's prepared to jump in even if
it's a little bit unorthodox because we
know we need to support that important
law enforcement agency uh and you're
right there is interesting Dynamics
there that would be the Emon Police
Service and I think some of those
Dynamics are probably more U that the
municipal Council has to navigate more
than us because we just want to get to
work and be able to help people I I will
say this that we we're obviously we're
happy to work with every municipal
government we recognize that they're
elected that is our job as a province
and we will do so but you are correct
I'm happy happy to say that our large
cities over time seem to have more
leftwing Mayors and often City
councilors though not all of them then
certainly my conservative party here in
the province of Alberta I I don't think
I'm saying anything that would shock
anybody given that the current mayor of
Emington is a former chudo cabinet
minister I'm not saying anything about
him personally he's he's certainly not
on the same side of the political
Spectrum as me and I think What's happen
over time is a if if they're on that
side of and that's their ideology on
that side of the political Spectrum
certainly they're going to start to
believe in some of these ideas which is
that you know somehow you can magically
help somebody get better by giving them
the poison that's killing them over and
over
but I I want to also though be clear
that I think often that it's coming
maybe even from a good spot I I actually
think lots of these individuals truly
believe that this will help these
individuals get better sometimes but the
reality is I believe that I don't
believe that because well the reason I
don't believe it is because there is a
tremendous danger in using a false
compassion to elevate your own moral
virtue public publicly and there are
ancient prescriptions against doing such
things so the third commandment depends
on how you count them is to not use
God's name in vain and what that really
means is do not attribute to yourself
moral virtue for pursuing something that
merely furthers your own agenda and I
see plenty of that on the compassionate
left and it's also a variant of praying
in public along with all the protest
it's like look how good I am look how
much I care it's like yeah did you do
any of the goddamn work like have you
ever worked yeah exactly let let me say
that a different way so then you have a
politician like that who who is a True
Believer in it and I I believe that you
know you got to be blind not to realize
what I've presented today is actually
hurting people and that your ideology is
wrong and that you're willing to allow
people to be hurt to continue down uh
presenting your ideological beliefs but
what happens I think is then you have
politicians that circumstance that are
confusing everyday people who don't
fully understand this issue and they
they may be looking at things like on
the news and they're going hey that
that's probably the better compassionate
way to do it because they don't have all
the details that I have but then when
you hear the details that I just present
you got to be going well actually that
conserve a government's right I mean do
you want my Approach which is to reach
in send a warm bus load everybody up
bring them to a nice warm facility give
them shower foods and access to Medical
resources treatment including re
Rehabilitation treatment for their
addiction or to be left inside a tent
freezing to death taking poison right
and that's that's what I mean by that I
think you know that ends up creating a
spot where very good people then end up
supporting this approach because they
don't you know they're Everyday People
they're working they just watch us on
the news and they go hey well that maybe
make sense and they don't understand
that they in the end they're ended up
supporting an ideology that's actually
killing people yeah no look I agree I
think that well that's exactly why I
wanted to do this podcast and now I
think we should get to the nitty-gritty
which is not that all of this was
irrelevant but the real relevant issue
here is you
know what the hell are you doing that's
going to work so let me give a preamble
to this so for everyone watching and
listening there's two major there's a
cantation of two major problems here the
first problem is that antisocial
behavior and drug use overlap and so
what why is that a problem well the
first problem is there is nothing in the
psychological literature that's more
intractable to treatment once it's
established than antisocial criminal
behavior and there's absolutely no
indication in the clinical literature
that it's that it can be aili ated so
for example the standard penological
doctrine of well versed criminologists
is that you have a re if you have a
truly repeat offender who has an
antisocial history stemming back into
like early teenagehood or even before in
the form of bullying and and violent
Behavior as a child the best thing to do
with them since no treatment works is
basically to incarcerate them till they
burn out in their late 20s and like and
people can can shrug their shoulders and
get squawky about that and about
it all they want but I would have been
thrilled if I would have gone through
the research literature and found any
exceptions to that absolutely dismal
prognostication in the 30 years I've
analyzed the literature and have been
unable to do so it's very very very very
difficult to treat antisocial Behavior
okay then you add the other next layer
of complication which is difficult as it
is to treat antisocial Behavior it's
perhaps equally difficult to treat drug
and alcohol addiction um alcohol often
being primary among the problems that
are difficult to treat there's no
evidence whatsoever generally speaking
that residential treatment centers for
example have any beneficial long-term
effect they do function to get people
off alcohol while they're in the centers
but almost invariably what happens is
that when you put the people treated
back into their old environment they
instantly relax now this is not to say
that no one ever recovers because most
people do in fact straighten back up but
it isn't obvious at all how treatment
can do that so that
puts policy people like you in a really
tough bind because you're dealing with a
population that's very very very hard to
serve and so the first thing I would
like to know you talked about these
uniservice Cent
so I would like to
know just what does it mean to offer
people treatment how do you tear down
these tent cities exactly like what are
the nuts and bolts involved in that the
process you're like do you what do you
do do you go in there and just like tell
me how you clean up the cities and then
tell me how it is that people are
directed into treatment and then we'll
get into the worst problem of like does
it actually work so I'll start with how
how how we're dealing with it and now
now Emon is where we're piloting this
approach and I think we're going to
mimic it elsewhere in our Province
because we're we are pretty excited
about the results but let me tell you
what we do first so obviously my social
services team uh at the Ministry of
Social Services is in contact with the
police the police inform us of the
encampment is coming down and they deal
with the law enforcement side of that so
deal with any elements that they may
encounter in there that obviously need
to be arrested warrant issues that are
taking place they handle law enforcement
but we're there so they move in like
okay so they make a decision and what
are the laws under which they're what
under what
legal pretext do they do they move in
why do they have the right to do this so
two issues that we primarily use uh one
is around just straight up bylaw
enforcement and you know there's
obviously rules about you being able to
just go build structures in different
municipalities and the second and more
common one of late from my understanding
is around fire safety issues I mean we
have had some pretty serious fires and
propane tank explosions the numbers are
are quite staggering and so it is a
legitimate fire issue and so the police
have to come in they're not the
firefighters obviously but the police
have to come in because of the safety
issues that are involved now do you warn
do you warn the people beforehand and
how many policemen do you need per
number of of tent city occupants what
are the logistics here yeah you so the
city of amonton had has an encampment
policy where they were uh trying to put
upon the police I believe to provide 72
hours notice that they were going to go
into those 10 cities uh this is
something we actually dis agreed with
because the reality was that just caused
people either to move it certainly gave
a heads up to that organized crime
element that there was about to be law
enforcement activity and so you know
since we and there was a court case
taking place in our Province from some
activist groups who were trying to uh be
stop the police from being able to do
this or enforce uh notice requirements
we the city of amiton uh and the police
actually won that case and that has
allowed us to be able to go in and be
able to address this uh without notice
and so what happens is OB we're notified
we arrive with the police and when I say
we I mean social workers and our team
that are are designed to support the
police they work closely with them the
police secure the area they deal with
their end of it but at that point we
have a warm bus right there ready to go
everybody is offered an opportunity to
be able to go to what we call our
navigation Center okay that's everybody
so that you offer that everybody in the
camp and and what are the what's the
biggest camp that you guys have managed
to take on at a time well so I think the
biggest camp that heard of would be
three 300 350 structures since we
started this process U interestingly
enough though you would only find
probably a few dozen people actually
within that t City when we we arrive oh
I see I see okay so you're looking at
numbers under a 100 when you're when
you're moving in and you're okay okay so
and so that's what five or six buses
four or five buses something like that
yeah it depending on the circumstance
obviously there's been there' be police
intelligence and our you know our our
team would be giving rough idea what
they think is going to be coming while
we're arriving on scene they're radioing
back to that navigation Center they're
saying here's how many people we think
we have coming in uh you know one of the
big things we have there is we have the
ability for them to be able to load and
totes their personal belongings we don't
want anybody to lose their stuff uh we
even take pets Jordan we can load the
pets up on that bus uh couples can go
together and we get them from there to
the warm navigation Center and they
arrive at that navigation Center uh
there's showers available right away uh
there's food coffee things that people
may need obviously is a warm location we
also have shelter beds there uh for you
know sometimes people need to dry out or
something that may take place obviously
there could be medical circumstances
that need to be addressed obviously
anybody who would need a hospital of
course we would use paramedics we would
get them immediately to emergency but
beyond that everything else can be
handled in that navigation Center and so
when you get there you'll you you
interact with our staff and then there's
multiple different stations throughout
it which I'll talk about and the genius
I think of what we've done here is we
brought instead of trying to take this
person from uh you know these tent
cities all over the city to all these
different Services we brought all the
nonprofits all the government services
together in one spot to come around that
individual and so they'll arrive and
they can get full Medicals there's
doctor or there's our Medical Teams for
the street that can deal with that
access to prescriptions uh you know one
of the most interesting things that you
find that a lot of individuals in this
circumstance need is ID they don't have
ID no more so we have our our our our
ministerial colleagues over in service
Alberta who handle ID in our Province
they're there right on site they can
give temporary ID immediately to these
individuals and then we can get their
permanent ID ordered all the pictures uh
they obviously have access then to
income supports be able to register for
things that they may be entitled to that
they did they did not know and then
ultimately uh towards things like uh
temporary housing emergency housing and
eventually permanent housing resources
so they can interact with those
individuals and of course uh access to
drug recovery programs which we can talk
about in a moment but that is all
happening in that one location and so
we've been at this for about three weeks
we've seen you know well over 200
individuals come out of those uh tent
cities and actively participate in this
process we referred to over 500 uh
different Services uh and we've been
pretty impressed with the results of
that now that's may seem like a small
number but given what we've been working
on this is kind of a you know a real
micro area that we're working on but we
think it's been so successful that we're
getting ready to bring this right into
our actual emergency homeless shelters
which are thousands of individuals and
into other areas where our Social
Services System interacts with with the
same type of clientele and again with
the goal of saying how do we help you
stop the circumstances that you're in
and move forward I also want to stress
that we talked a lot about drugs today
but there's a lot of mental health
issues that are taking place including
schizophrenia and some real challenges
right these are very serious mental
health issues and by being able to come
in and we have our Health Services right
around us again pharmacist support we
can really get some really needed things
around those individuals to start to
have a good conversation about what a
more successful healthy life might look
like going online without expressvpn is
like leaving your kids with the nearest
stranger while you go to the restroom
they're probably not a kidnapper or a
serial killer but why would you ever
take that risk every time you connect to
an unencrypted Network in cafes hotels
or airports you leave leave your data
vulnerable any hacker on the same
network can steal your personal data
such as your passwords and financial
details it doesn't take much technical
knowledge to hack someone hackers can
make up to $1,000 per person selling
personal info on the dark web expressvpn
creates a secure encrypted tunnel
between your device and the internet so
that hackers can't steal your sensitive
data it take a hacker with a
supercomputer over a billion years to
get past expressvpn's encryption I love
how easy expressvpn is to use you just
fire up the app and click one button to
get protected plus it works on all
devices phones laptops tablets and more
so you can stay secure on the go secure
your online data today by visiting
expressvpn.com Jordan exp
rvp.com Jordan and you can get an extra
3 months free that's
expressvpn.com
[Music]
Jordan okay so I got a couple of
questions there there um and some
procedural I want to discuss some
procedural issues too okay so the first
issue is I'm trying to imagine what it's
like for someone in a tent encampment to
be let's say uh displaced in that manner
and you could imagine two stories one is
that people are pretty damn pissed off
that the cops have showed up and are now
you know tearing down their their
structures but a counter story might be
they're actually kind of relieved to be
on a warm going somewhere that's
actually warm where they can have a
shower and get something to eat Etc and
so um what's your sense of how the Tent
City inhabitants themselves are
responding to this intervention by
government authorities and
police so the the vast majority of the
individuals that we've interacted with
that are actually in the tent cities uh
that would then come into our services
obviously so obviously if the police
have had to arrest a gang member or
something like that they're probably not
that thrilled that we're here but the
individuals that we're trying to get
there to help uh they react very
positively you know the biggest
protesters that we've seen or others who
are trying to uh interfere with this
process are not people staying inside
the tent cities they're often members of
the official opposition our province
which is the NDP which is a Socialist
Party within our Province or other
activist groups who certainly have never
spent one night on the street and are
there trying to bang on a drum that has
nothing to do with what we're talking
about and they're just trying to use
these vulnerable people to be able to
you know accelerate their agenda and you
which is very disappointing we seen I've
seen some uh police body cam footage of
these individuals throwing snowballs at
the police while they're trying to go in
interact and deal with the situation in
the encampments but the vulnerable
people in general uh have been pretty
excited once they realize what
opportunities they have and I've been
there to interact at this navigation
center with them and I've also heard
from my staff and the most common
reaction is I had no idea that this
resources were available and they quite
interested in it now obviously
everybody's at a different stage that
may be taking place there but certainly
I think uh we you know you get a nice
warm bed you could have a warm shower
you probably start to ask questions
about whether or not you want to
continue to sleep inside that tent in
minus 50 C or if this is a better
option okay okay so now I want to ask
you um about how you regulate the
interactions between people in these
centers because you we already discussed
the fact that in the tent cities the
fact of the tent cities is an invitation
to criminality and gangs and so then
first question I have is like how the
hell do you ensure that that problem
isn't duplicated inside your your
centers themselves so it's a very
important question and I will answer it
but I also want to to emphasize that
what we see on that you know for lack of
a better uh word on Words on that left
side of the spectrum when they argue
about us taken down these tent cities is
they often say well your shelters are
just as dangerous now again if you go
back through this entire conversation we
just had you realize how ludicrous that
is real quick that said of course we
start putting thousands of individuals
in the same type of demographics a lot
of the same circumstances happening
inside our emergency shelter system
you're going to see some of the same
elements show up and we for sure have
seen gangs out operating within our
Emergency Shelter Systems we are
obviously managing overdoses and drug
issues and those type of circumstances
but but we've invested in security we
are working closely with our local
police services who really support us
and our often nonprofit emergency
shelter providers uh uh to be able to
navigate through those issues we've also
up security to be able to make sure that
uh people's stuff is safe uh we've had
to put a lot of money into dealing with
overdoses and other medical issues
within our our emergency facilities and
while anywhere as you know Jordan in
society where we start to gather that
many people together there's going to be
you know elements of trouble it is
certainly significantly less than what
we're seeing inside 10 cities and we're
definitely using tools to be able to
mitigate those circumstances okay okay
so now I'm going to ask you some
questions more on the psychological and
treatment front as I said I spent a lot
of time looking into the viability of
treatment processes that are are what
widely distributable and effective and
on the psychological front and with
regard to Addiction Counseling and and
the treatment of various forms of mental
disorder and they're few and far between
effective treatments so I want to ask
you a couple of questions the first is
um have you guys given some
consideration to the maximum size of
your facilities because my suspicions
are that the smaller you keep those
centralized centers the less trouble
you're going to have with their
spiraling into criminal activity and
gangs and the more welcoming you'll be
able to make them for people who are
being taken off the street so so that's
the first question what what have you
seen and are you tracking the data
pertaining to the size of the initial
treatment
facilities so we are definitely uh
tracking data and I I one of the things
that we're trying to do on my end of
policy and the process that my Ministry
runs is to try to bring in other types
of the ways that we do emergency shelter
for for the homeless population so you
have your much more traditional shelters
that many people would just think about
that they'd see on TV often run by a
faith-based organization I want to say
thank God for our faith-based
organizations because they really do
good work with us but we have recognized
a need for smaller shelters shelters
that are focused on women only for
example in our in our society in our
Province shelters that are indigenous
focused with indigenous leadership right
on site to be able to to uh work on that
we've opened up indigenous only shelters
women only shelters inside our Province
supported by the government and we're
seeing success by getting that smaller
and being able to work with different
demographics more focused at the end of
the day what we have in our Province and
what what Premier Smith has done in our
province is actually bring in a mental
health and addictions cabinet minister
my colleague Dan Williams who is a part
of the health system who is fully
focused on mental health and addictions
and so he's the best one to talk to
about specifically how they handle
long-term drug treatment but what my job
now is is to redig the entire social
services system in our Province to end
up connecting to that and that's where
there's a real difference in viewpoints
between us and the left right I mean
where they want us to build Shelter
Systems where everybody can keep doing
drugs and just accept that behavior and
and and ignore the negative consequences
of that uh we are building Shelter
Systems and processes that Connect into
the work that Dan Williams and his team
are trying to do and it is a whole
different way of thinking I don't know
anywhere else in the province where
you've got an entire social services
system working on focused on actual
Recovery Care longterm for individuals
right so we're we're not in the business
of trying to Warehouse people our job is
to find individuals support them with
their immediate medical needs and then
try to connect them to long-term
opportunities uh to get them better okay
so okay so that brings me to the second
clinical issue I wanted to bring up so
you can treat people's present distress
but much of people's present distress is
rooted in a kind of nihilistic and
anxiety-ridden
hopelessness and they say it's been said
forever that the people perish without a
vision and one of the things you do see
with people who adopt a very short-term
strategy towards life which can have a
criminal element or an addictive element
is that they don't have anything
resembling a vision for their life or a
plan and so we experimented my my
colleagues and I experimented with the
provision of planning software and so we
have a program online called self author
which is very inexpensive requires
no supervision whatsoever to administer
that's completely private and um that's
actually accessible to everyone to some
degree assuming a basic level of both
literacy and ability to use a computer
but virtually everyone can use a phone
now so you know that's less and less of
a problem okay so it's called
self-authoring this program okay so now
the first thing it does it's got three
stages and you can do just one or or all
three let's say one or two or all three
the first stage has people write out
what's essentially an autobiography and
it's a good treatment for
trauma so it ask people to go through
their life to write their life story
essentially but it provides them with a
lot of different prompts break your life
into six epox describe the major
positive and negative events then it
walks you through an analysis of the
those events and so what that tries to
do is to situate
people in relationship to their past and
bring them up to the present okay so
this is where I came from these are the
events that shape me and and this is
where I am now okay so that's the past
authoring now the present authoring
helps people assess their faults and
their
virtues and the so it presents them with
a variety of descriptive statements that
they can check off and then it
Aggregates the ones that they're more
most convinced about and it says well it
helps them walk through an analysis
which is what stupid things are you
doing that hurt you as far as you're
concerned and what are your strengths
that you could capitalize on if you
decided to move into the Future Okay so
that's the second stage the third stage
this might be most relevant to your
Endeavor is the future authoring program
so here's the here's the
program so people who are who are
writing the
um essay let's say are enjoyed to
imagine that they were treating
themselves like they like they were
someone they wanted to
help okay now project yourself five
years in the future okay so here's the
deal within the bounds of reason you can
have what you want and need but you have
to specify what it is you have to aim at
it now we're always moving towards an
end and so if if you don't have an end
name you don't have any hope because
hope is experienced in relationship to
an A and you're anxious because there
are too many places to go so you bind
yourself with a vision and you give
yourself hope all right so five years
down the road what would your life look
like if you were educating yourself
properly if you were in a career that
was the one you wanted or at least a job
that was the one you wanted if your
family was put together in some
reasonable manner if you had the friends
that you needed if you were regulating
your drug alcohol use which needs a plan
and not merely cessation of addiction if
you were contributing to your community
if you were taking care of yourself if
you were occupying yourself properly
with your time outside of work if you
could have what you wanted what would it
look like Okay the reason I'm telling
you this there's two reasons number one
is it's Dirt Cheap it's easily
accessible and we have produced solid
empirical data and this is being
replicated in other ways in other labs
using writing
exercises the worst so if you take young
men who have a bad AC academic history
and they do this future authoring
exercise for 90 minutes when they're
orienting themselves at College they are
half as likely to drop out half right it
produces an increment of 35% in grade
point
average right three separate studies one
at Mohawk College in Ontario so
basically a trade school one at McGill
University and oh and four studies two
studies that were aggregated at a
business school in the Netherlands and
the most potent effects were for the
worst performing minority young
men right so one of the things that
might be worth considering is in cour
see people who are lost need a plan they
need to figure out who they are and they
need a plan now that's an expensive
proposition but this process circumvents
the expense and then there's an up
another upside which is apart from it
not costing anything it has no negative
consequences right so even if it fails
it isn't going to hurt people right so
I'm
curious so so far you see we've kind of
approached the addiction and the
homeless problem as something akin to an
addiction you know which is let's say
it's a it's a consequence of craving in
the present but that's not all an
addiction is an addiction is something
that destroys the
future and so people often look the
addiction literature is Crystal Clear
people will not stop taking their drug
of delight until they have something
better to do so young men for example
are very much likely to to abuse alcohol
with some regularity most of them quit
around 24 25 something like that when
they take on like a full-time job and
adop some adult responsibilities but
until then they think well you know it's
entertaining to drink my drink myself
into the ground three nights a week and
and many of them do but as soon as
there's something better to do they quit
now if you don't have anything we even
saw this with rats so for example you
cannot get rats that are integrated into
a social environment addicted to cocaine
yeah I know this study well yeah right
if you isolate them put them in a in a
in a a alone in a box they'll take
cocaine in preference to everything else
okay so I'm wondering have you guys
integrated anything like a like a uh
what would you say a process that helps
people generate a concrete plan into the
treatments that you're
offering so how how it's taking place in
Alberta is because we have our mental
health and addiction Ministry uh they're
bringing forward I'm going to talk a
little bit about what they're doing
recovery programs and so and you're
right I mean I used to do this for a
living before I was in politics so I I I
follow a lot what you're saying here
Jordan and but you know having to get
that Community together obviously got to
deal with the immediate issues that
somebody's dealing with maybe immediate
trauma there could be some pretty
significant mental health issues you
start going down the road of schiz
friendy as you know we're going down a
different type of path but in general
you got to get community around people
you got to deal with their immediate
issues show them a path forward your
right goal setting uh and off you go I
would say another one that I've learned
over time was also showing people
there's other ways to be able to have
fun appropriately
that's there's other ways to do to be
able to go forward like that and so when
you get into Minister Williams
Department after you leave our services
and if you're focused on recovery they
do something called recovery Capital
it's one of the first things they do
they start a process with an individual
to understand what their recovery
capital is and so that talks about the
assets they have where they're at what
they have access to and obviously the
drug side of things that I'm dealing
with right there in the homeless
population would be some of the toughest
addiction issues that min Williams
department will have to deal with I mean
this is this is not a functioning
alcoholic this your individuals who are
living in a tent right and there are in
very different circumstances so they'll
have lower recovery Capital but that
means there's going to be more that
needs to be done to get them to recovery
but certainly they put together that
process what's different though in
Alberta is we're committed to that
process and so if you see other
provinces or other jurisdictions in the
world they want to go to a different
process they want to go to the put them
in an apartment paid for by a taxpayer
let them do drugs so they pass away
that's essentially what it comes out to
uh go in there and say you know what
you've got this disease called addiction
there's basically nothing that could be
done we just want to support you and
make you comfortable Alberta we don't
believe that we believe that individuals
can recover we believe the science is
there it's hard work you're correct but
our job now in our social services
sector under the leadership of prer
Smith is to build a system that bridges
into these recovery programs are being
built by our colleagues and mental
health and addiction and then the next
part is really important that we have a
system on the other end of those
recovery programs because you're correct
they go into something like an addiction
treatment they get the tools to deal
with their addiction set long-term goals
get through that process and then you
come out and what happens too often is
you come out there you just end up
relapsing because there's nothing that's
built around virtually certain yeah yeah
yeah and so we're really focused on both
ends of it we want to build a social
services system that brings people into
active recovery support obviously our
colleagues who are doing the recovery
and then be there on the other end as
you come out of recovery post housing
post support well and that's going to
look very different for different people
I mean particularly if you're dealing
with different trauma different
circumstances but in our Province we
don't want to accept that you're going
to be in palet of care for drug addicts
we want to get you to where you can get
the help we want to get you the help and
then we want to support you as you go on
with the rest of your life and when
we've done that we're seeing people have
very successful lives Jordan you can
beat addiction uh you know and there's
some more complications now with the
different drugs we're seeing and what
it's doing to brain chemistry and you
know it it makes some of this more in
but the reality is we do not accept in
Alberta that if you are addicted to a
drug that this is a fatal disease and
our job is we are rejigging our social
services system to make sure that we are
all focused on that when it comes to
drug
addiction we're currently in the midst
of Lent the 40 days leading up to Easter
many Christians are choosing to give up
alcohol social media and other
distractions to focus more on prayer
fasting and giving Hallow's annual pray
40 challenge is one of their most
popular last year over 1 million people
joined and this year there are 1.62
million people praying as part of the
challenge this year's pray 40 challenge
focuses on surrender and includes
meditations on the powerful book he
leadth Me by father Walter shizak the
series follows shizak an American priest
and missionary through his imprisonment
and subsequent enslavement in the Soviet
Union during World War II and the Cold
War his story is one of Ultimate
Surrender and participants in the
challenge are called to surrender their
worries anxieties problems and lives to
God our very own Dr Peterson's wife
Tammy was recently featured in Pre 40
where she shares her story about being
diagnosed with terminal cancer and how
she personally surrendered to God the
Hallow app is truly transformative and
will help you connect with your faith on
a deeper level so what do you waiting
for join Hallow's pray 40 challenge
today download the Hallow app at
hall.com Jordan and you'll receive an
exclusive 3-month free trial and hear
Tammy Peterson's story of personal
surrender that's hall.com
Jordan okay so I'm going to Z I'm going
to double down on this again because um
it's so it's such a crucial problem and
it's so difficult to solve so I knew
this woman named Joan mccort Dr Joan
mccort and she was one of the first
female PhD criminologists and I know who
when she was quite an elderly woman and
and she had taught at Temple University
for years and she was a Pioneer in the
field and she did this study in a place
called Summersville in Massachusetts
and uh back in the late 30s and it was
the first large scale social
Intervention Program to address what
would you say to ameliorate the
circumstances of children in
neighborhoods where antisocial
personality and criminality and
addiction were a likely uh consequence
of of of the of of the disarray in that
environment um okay so they set up on
paper the the the intervention looked
wonderful they they there were literacy
programs for the children there were
parenting programs for the parents there
were social skills programs for the
children they tried to offer them the
resources they needed to be successful
in a way that you would expect
intelligent people to offer those
resources and they went above and beyond
um the Call of Duty you might say they
took all the kids out of Summerville and
uh took them to Summer Camps out of the
city for two weeks a year you know to
give them some immersion in nature and a
chance to get away and and everyone
loved the program the kids loved it the
parents loved it the teachers who were
involved loved it the social uh Services
types Who and the psychologists Etc who
were involved they thought this was a
bang up but they did uh they did one
fatal thing which is they actually built
evaluation into the program and so they
assigned the people randomly to
treatment and non-treatment group and
then after the program had run for a
couple of years they revealed the
results of the study to themselves and
this the kids in the treatment group did
worse on almost every
measure right and so they were
absolutely shocked and it turned out
like it took a couple years to figure
out exactly what had happened but what
had happened was
that taking all the kids who were most
prone to criminality and putting them
together for two weeks in a camp was a
school for
criminality right and that effect was so
detrimental that it obliterated not only
obliterated the effects of all the
interventions but reduced them and so or
reverse them so Joan McCord Dr McCord
spent a lot of the rest of her life
traveling around talking to politicians
for example in positions like yours
saying look whenever you introduce any
intervention whatsoever make sure you
budget for evaluation because just
because your intervention makes sense
doesn't mean it's going to work now you
alluded to the fact earlier that you and
this is part of what makes me so
skeptical I worked with a group of
criminologists centered in Montreal for
seven years looking at the Genesis of
antisocial Behavior the treatment of
addiction all these sorts of things with
really well-qualified people and one of
the things I really learned
was don't be so sure your stupid
intervention is going to do what you
hope it does and nothing else typical
conservative attitude in some ways right
law of unintended consequence so I'm
wondering what systems of evaluation you
guys have built in
um really on the scientific side like
are you in a position where you can
track the results of what it is that
you're doing and uh like is there a team
that's involved in helping you do that
and if so you know what have you done
and what are the what are the results of
your evaluation so far how do you and
how do you know they're credible even no
it's it's a great question it's the
right question too and I you know
speaking as a longtime cabinet minister
you're right I mean often we're
investing in programs with the best of
intentions but you can end up making
things worse particularly in files like
we're talking about you know I I if
you're really interested in this I hope
eventually get an opportunity to sit
down with Minister Williams who's
leading it specifically on the work
we're doing on addictions but I will
tell you on the other side of the file
um the reality is we have not done a
good job as a provin on the statistics
side this to me is what's actually most
alarming and so we are right now
diligently putting in statistical
systems all across our housing and
homeless shelter Spectrum so we can
understand the numbers and we're
starting this with obviously this Tent
City process because we've been able to
build the new navigation centers where
we got good uh ability to be able to do
statistics on site and understand what's
going on and we are going to evaluate
that program based on its results but
one step further we've done underneath
Premier Smith is we are putting in
evaluation programs across our entire
social services system on results
particularly uh on results when it comes
to actually recovery and that could be
Beyond just addictions that could be uh
you know in case we're working on
individuals who are obviously on our
welfare programs what that would look
like is well how many people within
these programs are ending up back at
work you're you're asking us for an
investment of millions of dollars for
work placements well the proof is how
many people are coming off thead RS
every year and so if you're coming back
up to me as the minister and saying I
need this many more million dollars a
year above population growth well
clearly why am I investing in your
employment programs right and so you
know there's been a lot of good programs
like that in my big Ministry that I
think are worth looking at but we are
not going to allow it to continue
without clear assessments based on
results and you know we're about at six
seven months into that process as a
department since I took over this
ministry and I I I really believe over
the next few years we'll see uh much
more ability to answer that question but
you're 100% correct I I would I would
say one of the things I've learned in my
time in this file is that we actually
can't answer that question with
credibility now we of course we have to
keep helping people we can't stop you
know we're not going to let people
freeze to death and we're not going to
let children live on the streets and we
have to deal with these issues but if we
want results we got to lay out the
target we got to set the goals and we
got to hold the people that we're
funding accountable as a tax paare based
on results uh and so that's not just
people in beds it's how you're getting
them out of the beds it's how you're
ending up making sure that they don't
end up having to be in the system no
more because I think that's what
everybody wants yeah yeah well that's a
very very tricky problem so you know I
worked for your department was right in
19 in 1984 well let me tell you that
story because it's Germaine to what
we're discussing so I was just I had
just graduated from the University of
Alberta with my undergraduate psychology
degree and I worked for social services
in the summer helping them design an
evaluation program for
daycare and yeah yeah and so I was an
intern there for four months and I got
to know the assistant Deputy Minister we
got along quite nicely and she liked me
and um and I worked hard and then they
hired me for a whole year as an
independent consultant and so then I
worked on developing the evaluation
system for the daycare programs in
Alberta for a year but there was
something else I did at the same time
because she gave me a side job which was
a very comical job I'll tell you because
the year before de had been commissioned
by The Province to do a comprehensive
evaluation of the social services
provision and so deoe charged the
provincial government some rate that you
can well imagine would be commensurate
with what consulting services like deoe
charged and they produced a bunch of
numbers about what was spent and what
the effects were and so forth that were
hypothetically measurements and then my
boss at the time said could you update
these numbers and I thought well that's
a pretty funny request because I'm not
Deo but I could give it a shot and so I
did that over a few months and the first
thing I found out was that none of those
numbers were real the the social so for
example Social Services couldn't answer
a basic question this is one of the
questions she wanted answered I think
her name was Melanie Hots if I remember
correctly yeah and she was a very sharp
lady this woman and uh um one question
she wanted to answered was
what percentage of what social the
Department of Social Services spends
ends up in the hands of the
beneficiaries and so the basic question
was well does social services spend 95%
of its money supporting Social Service
bureaucrats and 5% on the delivery of
Direct Services and the answer was well
here's a number but no one has any idea
whatsoever if that number is accurate so
I updated this report at believe me a
fraction of the cost that deoe had
charged and with a hell of a lot more
accuracy in number but it was it was a
shock to me I was only about 20 at the
time something like that 84 22 and uh I
was shocked about two things I was
shocked first that I was hired to do
that second that I could do it better
than deoe and third that the whole
bloody Department was blind it had no
notion what whatsoever of the
relationship between its inputs and its
outputs now that's the problem in some
ways that's the problem with a
government intervention system that's
unmowed from the discipline of of
private Enterprise right because there's
no customer to give you feedback but the
reason I'm bringing that up is because
well just to my suspicions are that m
not much has changed since and that and
that
uh now you made illusion to the fact
that you are putting these evaluation
systems into okay that's the question to
what degree do you think that the
Department of Social Services knows the
Ministry of Social Services
knows what it's spending and what what
it's getting for the for its dollar is
does it know at all so it I think it
would depend on the area of the
department I I think that in some areas
particularly where we're focusing on
things like children with disabilities
uh people with development disabilities
uh and some of the contracts that we do
around that where it's easier to measure
that uh the direct results you know we
can we could definitely show you clear
statistics of the investment that we put
into affordable housing and how many
people are living within the you know as
a result of those Investments but as you
get more into these complicated areas I
I I'm very comfortable saying that I
think we need to do more that I will
also say though I think Alberta is one
of the best in our country at it and
part of that is because after 1984 as
you get in the 90s Along Comes a fiscal
Revolution inside our Province led by
former Premier Ralph Klein uh which
really made our Social Services System
operate a little bit more different than
many other provinces we became much more
comfortable working with outside
agencies I think I probably run one of
the biggest Social Services departments
that relies on nonprofits including even
faith-based organizations we're
comfortable working with those
organizations and that started in the
Ralph era where they would go hey let's
not hire Union people to run our
Emergency Shelters let's go work with
the Salvation Army let's go work with
these other organizations inside the
province to do so and so there became a
little of a culture to be able to
actually go out and work a little bit
more outside of that scope of that Union
bureaucracy type of thing that you would
see in most departments I am in no way
claiming that we've done that all the
way but I think it's a different culture
that we see in Alberta yeah that's a
culture of distributed responsibility
which is a good conservative principle
right is that all of this that doesn't
have to be centralized shouldn't and
that's part of that's part
of providing people with what would you
say the responsibilities that actually
give them meaningful lives right you
don't want the centralized agencies to
be giving handouts and and offering what
would you call what would you call
security and stability to
people so that they don't have to
provide it for themselves it's not going
to work and it's not good for them okay
okay so you're now let's let's turn if
you would let's turn um to a bit of a
bit of a broader issue now you guys in
the last couple of
weeks last week even um have have
started somewhat of a fire in Canadian
politics because your leader Danielle
Smith has come
out with policies that have upset the
compassionate left let's put it that way
now my understanding is that she has
tightened up the restrictions on
offering
socalled this is like one of the biggest
verbal lies I've ever heard so-called
gender affirming care which means
exactly the opposite by the way by any
reasonable standard by tightening up the
um ability by restricting the ability of
those who would offer the opportunity to
transform themselves physically by
tightening up the provision of that
service to children to minors now that's
caused quite the outcry not least among
Justin Trudeau's minions and Fa
compassionate butchers to put it
bluntly can you tell me a little bit
about more about the nature of that
policy how you guys organized yourself
so that you had enough Gall and courage
to manage this because it's a very rare
thing that's being done and what you
think the response is going to be well
first let me say we got a a very rare
primer and she's pretty brave and I
think she's shown that uh several times
in her last year or so but this issue
would probably be the biggest where
she's uh been able to do that I also
want to be clear I believe my Premier is
uh standing where the vast majority of
certainly albertans are uh and where the
vast majority of I think Canadians are
and probably beyond that but certainly
the people that we work for which is
albertans the vast majority agree
particularly in my constituents I think
that uh you where she's headed is in the
right direction which is to recognize
that uh children are children it's some
you know we restrict children from
making other decisions uh that have
significant impact on their lives until
they're at a spot uh where they can uh
from maturity level brain development
level all those things that you
understand better than me frankly but
you know we tell our kids when they
could drink for example in our provinces
I mean we we determine when those things
could take place and I don't think that
anybody that is thinking about this in a
reasonable way finds it at all that
bizarre that would do the same for
something as drastic as changing one's
body permanently when they are below the
age of 18 I mean this is a thing that a
12 or 13 year-old is should not be put
in a spot to do yet it doesn't make any
sense the other things that she's done
is she's blocked uh or she she will be
bringing forward our government um not
using hormone treatment for transgender
purposes there could be other reasons
below 18 where hormone treatment may be
prescribed right but that obviously for
medical reasons would continue but to
say the same thing these decis decisions
can take place after 18 uh and you know
at its core this is about putting
parents back into their children's lives
and I that for me as a father inside
this province is where this is at this
should be about compassion at the end of
the day we are talking about children
and we need to be able to make sure that
that we recognize that but we also know
I mean look at the issues we just talked
about today lots of those individuals uh
I don't think would ever come into
counseling or any other process and say
gez I wish my parents spent less time
with me I wish my parents parents are
less involved that's just not true you
know it's going to be the opposite way
and so making sure that we connect
children with parents and let parents
lead this process with their children is
the right thing to do now I will
recognize because what you're going to
hear from people who are upset is say
well some children will get hurt there
are bad parents sadly there is we we've
seen parents kill their children at
times but the reality is that you don't
disconnect all the children from the
good parents to deal with that Minority
situation where there's bad parents we
need to through our children's services
system we need to protect children for
sure and we need to interact in
circumstances where children may not be
being cared for properly but that you
don't do that by taking away children
from their good parents for the good
parents it doesn't make any sense at all
it's just crazy well of course bad
parents there's going to be a minority
of psychopaths but there's going to be
just as many Psychopaths among the
social workers so you know that's just
not a good argument so that's why that
argument makes me so mad well it's a
it's an absolutely idiotic argument and
it's driven by an underlying notion that
the state has the right to reconstruct
Humanity itself in the name of some
utopian Vision right there's no excuse
for it it's appalling what are the
exactly in detail to the degree that you
can provide them what changed with
Premier Smith's new legislation in terms
of restrictions like what did what
exactly did she restrict and how are
those restrictions on
um on these mutilating and sterilizing
procedures to be quite Frank what are
the restrictions that are now in place
on those
procedures so I think probably comes out
to three main areas well four if you we
can talk about sport in a minute but uh
three main areas first is that parents
in our Province will have to be informed
uh if their child is trying to talk
about things like changing pronouns or
these typ informed by schools correct
that they can't that that can't be held
back from parent parents need to know
what is taking place with their children
so that's one uh second is to band uh
underage uh any underage surgeries that
would change either top or bottom is
often how how we've expressed that
surgeries that would change somebody's
body uh and then lastly was uh stopping
hormonal treatments for the purpose of
transition uh below uh for minor okay
okay great now that's so that's okay so
that is that already instantiated in
legislation that's already happened or
it has not happened it's been announced
that that's what we're going to do so
that's what the primer did she went out
she uh made very clear where we're going
this is Our intention and that we will
be coming forward shortly with
legislation to make that happen Okay so
one of the things I would recommend by
the way and I know this is gratuitous
advice but it might be useful don't use
top and bottom that's a euphemism put
forward by the by the psychopathic
Predators who are pushing this agenda
it's castration and mist
toy right got it and and use the blunt
terms because it's not cutesy top and
bottom you know not in bit there's
nothing about what is being done on the
surgical front that's the Le least bit
cutesy Yeah it and that you're right to
make clear that is taking a child's body
and permanently changing it removing
parts or adding Parts uh for for
individuals that we actually at this
moment would not even allow to make a
decision to drink in a bar exactly
exactly yes adding pseudo
Parts
malfunctioning experimental pseudo parts
right right while all the while at the
moment at the same time pretending that
they're the same as the real thing which
they're not at all in any way right and
then I want to add the fourth thing that
she's doing that we're doing for our
government under our premer leadership
uh which is to make sure that women can
participate in their Sports and not
being a circumstance where an intact
biological male and or a former
biological male uh can come along and
participate in their Sports and so in
our Province we don't want to be a spot
where hardworking female athlete is all
of a sudden in a uh an m&a fight with a
guy my size I mean it's and I think that
again I want insane EXA 84% I believe is
the last poll I saw of my provincial uh
neighbors uh who agree with these points
and so I I actually don't believe this
is that controversial I think people
want to make it controversial but
anytime that we're standing up for minor
children and parents working in their
children's lives I think we're in the
right spot so I can share a little bit
of my experience on that front with you
guys um so here's so you're gonna you
and you're already in this you're going
to get a lot of
angry narcissistic Psychopaths
screeching at you and they're going to
make a lot of noise and they're going to
attempt to damage your moral
reputations if you apologize or back off
you'll lose they'll win if you hold your
course it'll be real intense for about a
month and then everything will shift
radically in your favor and you'll be
seen as Pioneers if you can just
tolerate that intermediary period of
boiling oil you know the sorts of
epithets that that Trudeau and his
demented dimwits are
are are are what are hurling your way
you're going to come out of this you're
going to come out of this as the most
forward-looking amongst the most
forward-looking political leaders not
only in Canada but in North America and
you could make a big bloody difference
all across the continent and maybe in
the west more broadly so I would say all
the noise you're generating that's a
sign that you've hit the target very
squarely I agree with you and I I I can
assure you uh that the premier and her
cabinet are 100% dedicated to to protect
this is about protecting kids in our
mind and and and that if we can't do
that as Leaders we have no business
being in these jobs and so we're uh
we're very comfortable we're going to
stay the course we're going to protect
the children of Alberta and we're going
to continue to make sure this is the
best province in our country to live in
okay so so two one final question What
proportion of the tent cities do you
think you've dealt with already and how
fast do you think this process is going
to roll out so we we've got a little
over 200 of these 10 cities down already
I think we the last last report I saw is
we got about another 78 to go now what's
going to happen now we're going to start
to see them try to pop back up again so
there's going to be another round where
we're going to go in there and this is
one of the reasons why we're not playing
around with notice this is not
acceptable able in our cities and we
will move quickly to support the police
to take down the next round and
eventually people will learn that's
what's going to take place and then I
think you'll see two things happen
you'll probably see some of this
pressure move into our underground
transit systems and we're going to move
the same way there we're going to say
that's not going to be acceptable here
we're going to use the same process
we're going to support the police to get
people to supports and then I suspect
what happen is we'll probably start to
see some popups just for nights and then
they move and at that point we've had
success with permanent tent cities and
then we'll re-evaluate where we go next
and so I we we're very dedicated to this
my boss prer Smith has told me this must
be done and uh when she tells me
something's going to be done it's going
to be done all right all right well it
sounds like the next person from your
government that I could talk to and
should perhaps if he'd be willing as
Minister Williams yes so we could set
that up and uh I know he he's a big fan
and is would be excited to do it in fact
he's probably a little irritated with me
that I got to go first so if you get him
up he'll be excited all right all right
well I think we should I think we should
definitely set that up and then we
should probably also do another podcast
with the with the minister responsible
for higher education because we could
have a very fun conversation about that
too I would I would like to watch that
one so any way I can help uh get that
connected happy to do it let do let's do
both of those let's do both of those I
thought this went very well and so thank
you very much for your time today and
for answering all my impertinent
questions questions and for walking
through all of this in detail I'm hoping
that Alberta can provide a
model for the rehabilitation of these
tent cities across North America because
people really don't know what to do you
know and you guys have a pretty
comprehensive plan now you know it's
reasonable to be skeptical about it
because you're dealing with a hard
problem but the fact that you've already
removed 200 of 300 tent cities you know
that shows some real will here and it
doesn't look to me like you've taken a
particularly severe beating on the
public front for doing this right it's
caused a lot less furer for example than
Premier Smith's move on the on the
transgender affirming front it's it
certainly has been quieter I will tell
you it's exactly what you said we we got
hit real hard the first couple days as
we announced it it was really loud and
we just stayed the course because we
knew we were doing the right thing and
and you know both the chief of police
and Emon and myself have received more
positive corresponden on this than any
other I've done in my 10 years in oh
that well say there you go that that's
so well that's the advantage of doing
the the long-term right thing like
people will swing around behind you if
you can if you can withstand that
initial trial by fire all of these
things they're great opportunities right
because if you can see a serious problem
and you can offer a solution then you
know you've actually done your job and
wouldn't that be a wonderful thing yep
exactly more of us should probably do it
yeah well we should also set up a talk
with the minister of energy because Dan
let's let's do that because Danielle
also offered um uh announced when I was
in Alberta with Carlson and with uh with
Lord Conrad black that that that Alberta
is planning to double its gas and oil
production and that's a real slap in the
face to Steven Gilbo and he's certainly
an individual who richly deserves at
least one and so I think we could have a
very productive conversation about the
true benefits of the fossil fuel
industry in Alberta and what and how
Canada could Thrive and truly Thrive and
offer its its resources to the world if
um you know if if Canadians could get
their head screwed on straight about
just exactly what was what and so let's
do all of those that would be good I
will my guys are in the room with me
here right now so we we'll not them all
we'll connect them with your people I
spent three years as minister of
environment Alberta so gabo was one of
my counterparts uh we won't get into
that today but I've got a few stories
and this is not a friend of this
province that's for sure he is uh he's
not a friend of Canadians where they're
headed is is to a very dark place uh
dark cold a dark and cold was about to
say and very cold place so
yeah we'll get you connected with
everybody though okay okay so for
everybody watching and listening you'll
know uh if you've attended other
podcasts that I'm going to take another
half an hour with my guest on The Daily
wire plus side and we're going to talk
about the Genesis of his political
career and I would say also his hopes
for the future because I'd like to know
about that and the conservative Vision
in Alberta for the future and so if
you'd be inclined to join us for the
additional half an hour behind the daily
wire pay wall you'd be more than welcome
to do that and you could throw a little
support the daily wire plus way which I
would also recommend because they are a
at at minimum a Bastion of the free
speech that is becoming increasingly
difficult to come by in our society and
that is threatened more and more on
platforms like YouTube which still has
the good graces to offer the sorts of
things that we're discussing today so
join us there and thank you very much
sir um I'm looking forward to talking to
your colleagues you bet yeah thanks for
the forthright discussion
bye-bye
[Music]